Linux Kernel is the primary component within the Linux operating system. It acts as the core interface between computer processes and the computer hardware by managing processes to run as efficiently as possible. Linux Kernel is named a kernel because it operates within the OS, controlling hardware processes, similar to a fragile seed inside a hard shell exterior.

Linux Kernel, developed by Linus Torevalds in 1991, is a free and open-source Unix-like operating system kernel. The Linux Kernel was later adopted by multiple developers and combined with a free and open source OS called GNU, in which the Linux Kernel would replace the kernel GNU was running on. They decided to implement this change because of its increased functionality and other benefits that Linux had to offer.

The purpose of Linux Kernel is to manage computer hardware and software resources and provide common services for computer programs. The kernel acts as the core program of an operating system and is the first program loaded on startup and has three main functions: 1) it handles the rest of the start-up process 2) it handles the input/output requests from other programs 3) it manages memory and hardware peripherals such as keyboards, mice, monitors, etc. Linux is ranked as the world’s most used and free open-source kernel, allowing consumers to read/write to the operating system at will. One operating system that branches off of Linux’s kernel is Google’s Android OS, which uses a modified version of the kernel. The Linux Kernel is an extremely versatile piece of software that even allows internet servers to use its functionalities.

Unlike Windows and iOS, Linux is an open-source operating system which means that Anyone can see the source code and redesign it according to their needs. Linux is also free to install, meaning that you don’t need a license to use it. It has some advantages and disadvantages that have been discussed below.

As mentioned earlier Linux is an open-source operating system. This can come in handy especially for people who code and/or need to make changes to the way their computer works. It is also free to install and use unlike Windows or Mac so it could be a great alternative for someone who is on a budget but needs a computer that can adapt according to his/her needs.One of the best qualities of Linux is that it is extremely secure. Since it is an open-source OS, there are several developers in the world that look out for viruses and potential threats. So, when the code needs to be upgraded or changed, it can be done in no time.

Another reason for this security is that since the number of Linux users is comparatively lower than Windows users, it is not profitable to create viruses for this system. Automatically, lesser viruses equal lesser chances of your system being infected. It is a fact that antivirus programs slow down a system. Since the software is constantly updating its database of viruses and checking the system for those viruses, it uses a lot of memory.

Since Linux does not require the installation of this software, a huge chunk of memory is unused, creating a faster system. On top of that, Linux already works faster than Windows because of its comparatively simpler user interface.

One of the biggest advantages of Linux is that it is very easy to change according to your needs. It is also one reason why it is very popular amongst programmers. Since you can see the source code for this OS, it is easier and legal (unlike Windows), to change it according to your needs for your system.

Another one of the reasons why Linux is a better choice is the fact that it works on computers with very low system specifications. If you have an older computer that you use and cannot throw away, Linux is a great choice for you. It will run without a problem, unlike Windows or Mac.

However, learning how to use Linux can take a while, especially if you are used to using other Operating Systems and not an open-source operating system like Linux. The user experience is a lot different in Linux so you will need to set time aside to learn the system first. This could be frustrating to some people.

A variety of applications that work on Windows or Apple OS do not work in Linux. If you are someone who needs to have access to certain applications for your work, you will probably want to see if it works in Linux. Microsoft applications are one such example of a software that isn’t available for Linux users.

Statistically, the majority of computer users use either Windows or Apple OS so game developers create games suited to these operating systems. A lot of popular games aren’t supported by Linux. This is one reason why Linux isn’t popular among young users yet.

One of the biggest problems in Linux, as reported by users, is that drivers don’t exist in this operating system. Like most software, there are ways to work around that but there have been problems reported when people tried to use old hardware or certain other hardware (greengarageblog.org, 2017).

Along with the Linux Kernel’s three main functions, the kernel is also in charge of keeping track of the amount of storage used for which specific programs and determining which processes should be used by the CPU. The Linux Kernel is an important component within the operating system that allows users to read and write into the kernel due to its free and open-source software. If implement  ed correctly, it should be undetectable by the user and able to allocate memory while keeping track of the computer’s processes. It acts almost as a miniature assistant that allows communication between the hardware such as the CPU and the computer processes.
